Basic Introduction:
Hello my name is Adam Villarreal, currently a 25 year old living in San Diego. I am originally from Fresno Country, specifically from a small town called Reedley, California where I was born. I was raised in a low middle-class household by loving parents, and a greater extended family based in all the other surrounding towns. My ethnic boundary is Mexican, as all my grandparents were immigrants from Mexico to the US, and they contributed to the rise of the agricultural industry within the Central Valley. Being raised in Fresno County placed me in a largely immigrant environment where most of my friends were either immigrants as babies or their parents immigrated right before giving birth to their children. My family also comes from a very devout Catholic background, with a big emphasis on familial duties of taking care of your family financially and the importance of an education. With all these aspects, I have come to learn the merits of hard work especially in times of hardship, and the force that propels me forward to hope is love.




Family Background:
My maternal great-grandfather, Jesus Viveros, was a farm worker during the US government's Bracero Program that allowed Mexican nationals to work to gain US dollars to eventually grasp their families within Mexico to escape poverty locally or in the hopes of emigrating to the US. However, this led to the mistreatment of Mexican laborers in the US, which eventually led to the creation of the UFW Labor Union movement, spearheaded by Cesar Chavez. My great-grandfather personally was arrested along with Cesar Chavez in a demonstration. This historic background of our family's story of immigration to the United States has left an impact of a work ethic and overall a sense of hope for our own lives and careers. My grandfather, Hector Lee Garcia has an interesting background as his family were Chinese immigrants to Mexico in the early 20th Century. His childhood was rather interesting, but his background of blending Chinese and Mexican culture and cuisine is something my family cherishes.




Educational Background:
Before university, I attended Saint La Salle School in Reedley, which is a small Catholic elementary school in my town and it was well known to be one of the most disadvantaged private schools in Fresno County. My friends and I have vivid memories of playing soccer on dirt and dead grass during recess, and when we attended other catholic elementary schools for events to find ourselves in the most pristine environments, later realizing that our school was not able to pay for facilities. Most of my friends were given scholarships by their employers of their parents who worked as farm workers or workers within packing houses, so the sense of elitism did not exist while there. But the education was great, I had a knack for mathematics as a child that it became my best subject, while grammar was and is still probably is my worst subject. I was a part of the academic decathlon team that was invited by the principal of the school to attend, and it was the principal's priority to perform well to display the academic levels to other more fortunate Catholic schools in the area. I was chosen to compete in the subject of history where I believe I placed either 2nd or 3rd.


In my high school called Reedley High School (RHS), I was largely still academic but was not putting my whole motivation into my studies with my father being satisfied with getting B's. I had overall a fun time as a student, with many memories just messing around with friends and throwing a Frisbee with my friend Angel between classes. I took as many AP and honours courses as I could, except AP literature as I did not enjoy reading at the time. But my first AP course was World History, and it left an impact on me academically. Even to this day it is a stable force of understanding current modern conflicts across the world, but it gave me necessary skills like reading comprehension and the practice of allowing passion to drive my academic curiosity. And another course was AP Calculus A, the highest math course available to me. The course was taught by an older man named Mr. Donald Friesen, and he basically volunteered to only teach that course since he was already retired at that time. He was a very good man who truly loved serving his community. He is one of the best, or perhaps the best educator I have had in my life.
He went far beyond his duties as a math teacher, opening his classroom at 6:00am to have office hours for help with homework and a further office hours window on Tuesdays and Thursdays from 7:00pm to 9:00pm. His lessons were very well taught, and he used physical 3D diagrams that allowed me to visually learn. I also was in academic decathlon for my high school, and in my senior year I was chosen to represent my school in math, and I won gold and also achieved a 5 on my AP exam, and I owe it all to Mr. Friesen. He also was the teacher representative of a club called "Students for Peace", were we pushed for social justice awareness of local and global
politics, and for climate change awareness on campus trying to promote reusable water bottles. He is someone I very deeply cherish.


After high school, I attended the University of San Francisco, a Jesuit University in one of California's most beautiful cities of San Francisco. I had a resurgence of a faith life in high school, that pushed me to want to have a religious academic experience, especially that blended social movements with faith. I learned later that Jesuit institutions are known for this. I was accepted in a Catholic Honours Society called the Saint Ignatius Institute, where the courses offered were based largely in western humanities that were the basis of Catholic philosophical thought, however I was not only trapped in Catholic thought. I loved my philosophical and theological courses that have shaped me to be who I am. But this was only one of my passions, as I later became a Bachelor student in Data Science, which was largely strictly held in post graduate programs at that time. 


Before studying Data Science in my second year, I struggled in my first year of university. I was homesick due to me missing my family but also struggling to find myself engaged in new cultures and beliefs of other fellow students. I did not care about my grades, I was just happy I was in college and was satisfied with achieving the motto "C's get degrees". And I overall was stuck finding my future, since I entered as a Psychology major, but later dropped out of Psychology 101 after the first class! I remembered seeing people code, and somehow allowed myself to explore online videos and programs to learn. For some reason, I always thought programming was for smart people or people with vague moral beliefs displayed in the film The Social Network, I think it was perhaps the built-in insecurities I had from being raised in an underdeveloped part of California. I was surprised to learn that my classmates studied AP Computer Science, since I didn’t even know that those courses existed for high schoolers. With the greater doom of trying to find a future career after university since dropping Psychology, I took HTML and CSS courses on Codeacademy in my first semester of my first year and was really enjoying my humanity courses at the time. But I changed my major to mathematics during that time, but didn’t take another math course until the Spring semester of my freshman year in 2018. I had a sense that I wanted to succeed in a career but only saw an education outside of the humanities as the necessary stepping block to that career, so my motivation was not in academic life. This was very clear at the beginning of 2018 when I attended hackathons, and eventually won one at SFSU while also debating dropping out to attend a Coding Bootcamp to jumpstart my career. And I was struggling in my classes as I saw no point to try and put energy into academic success with the overall stress of being homesick in a new environment. I was struggling in my Calculus II course since I felt no motivation to try to keep learning, especially after being so prideful of outperforming myself in AP Calculus a year before.


I remember going home in the middle of that Spring Semester of 2018 to visit family and to satisfy that homesickness, and was able to see my 99 year old great-grandmother, Guadalupe Viveros, who was in the hospital from hurting her hip from a fall. I remember taking a picture with her with my sister and mom around her, and then returning back to San Francisco that Sunday. Then I got a call on that next Tuesday, March 6th 2018 that she passed away of natural causes in that hospital room. It was a surprise not so much of her age, but the nature of her peaceful and sudden death. And it spiraled me personally into questioning the current situation of my life. I was unsure if I was living in accordance with what was right or if I was giving the correct amount of effort into my success as my elders would have wanted. I knew I was not trying my best in academics my whole academic career, especially all of high school and that current time in my first year of university. 


My grandmother always told me stories of being raised in Mexico by her mother Guadalupe, while her dad Jesus worked in the US. They were in poverty in a rural part of the state of Michoacan, and with the help of my great-grandfather Jesus, they had some funds to try and move to other parts like Moreilla, Michoacan and Ciudad de Mexico to try to find success. They did not have enough food to eat, and largely survived on only beans and tortillas. Then my great-grandmother reunited with her husband Jesus in Calexico, California as the United States allowed starting to give visas to Mexican nationals and ex-bracero program workers. They were able to achieve the “american dream” by buying a new home and living a comfortable life on their wages.


After my great-grandmother’s death, I felt like I was wasting my potential. I knew I could’ve given more effort in high school, and that my close to failing grades was not ideal. I felt an overall sense that I can make an effort and still accomplish things that they could have only imagined. So I had a change of heart, that I should try and reach my potential and I tried to recuperate my grades, which I was able to finish Calculus II with a C. And during this time I was told by my friend and quasi-mentor, Kia Middlebrook, that if I enjoy math and enjoy coding that I might like Data Science as that was his major. And besides ending with a passing but not stellar semester, I wanted to see what I could do to get ahead and pursue my potential. I saw a course on Udacity that was an introduction to Python and necessary mathematical background to build a neural network with PyTorch. So in the summer of 2018, I was able to stay in San Francisco by living with my Uncle; I retook Calculus II in the local City College of SF, I taught myself Python and Neural Networks, and worked as a busser for a catering company. I received an A+ in that Calculus II course and was able to understand the Linear Algebra background of building my first MNIST Feed-Forward Network.


From then on in my academic career at USF, I excelled in my studies in both my humanity and Data Science courses. Every semester after Fall 2019, I received a perfect 4.0 GPA in all my courses. I was given the Data Science Institute Award for my cohort when I graduated in 2021, for being the top of my class in the department. And one of my favorite accomplishments at the time was constructing and training an LSTM on existentialist writings, and then writing a report of the technical aspects of the model for my final in my ML course, which my professor Daniel O’Connor was not exposed to LSTMs until that point therefore I taught him the latest NLP techniques at that time! Outside of my major Data Science, and received a minor in Catholic Studies through the Theology Department that exposed me to modern Catholic social thought, that has and continues to inspire me to engage in my passion for the further intersection of technology and the success of humanity for a more just society.