What do I do for fun?
1. Play Soccer/Football
2. Go to museums
3. Hiking
4. Walking in Parks
5. Going to events discussing AI
6. Enjoy talking about philosophical and theological ideas, and the intersection with modern social thought
7. Playing Video Games
8. Watching Movies


Sports:
I love playing soccer or “football” as it is called outside the United States! The way I learned to know and love soccer was through my friends in elementary school. Many of my friends were either immigrants or first-generation mexican-americans, so soccer was beloved and shared to them by their parents who brought it from Mexico. I remember playing in the school yard with my friends most recesses from 2nd to 8th grade. However, in recess we would play other sports, mostly dodgeball and basketball, but we would also play foot volleyball in the volleyball courts at school. My classmates were all very talented, since they participated in playing for the local club called Aguilas. Aguilas was operated by the father of one of my best friends growing up named Angel Mondragon who also attended Saint La Salle school with me. Our class was the backbone of our soccer program at school, and in 8th grade we were able to win first in a soccer tournament against other local schools that remains a core memory for my friends.


        Other sports I played were baseball and basketball, as those were sports my parents grew up with. As stated before, my grandparents immigrated from Mexico in the 1960s and at that time soccer/football was starting to grow at the time but it was not the most popular sport at the time. My grandpa, Hector Lee, enjoyed boxing as boxing has been one of the major sports of Mexico even before soccer and baseball as it was popular in border states at the time. But outside of my grandpa, my other grandparents were not consumed with sports and the emphasis of education was more intense. As an example, playing high school sports was not accepted for my mom and her brothers as it made the working schedules of my grandparents more stressful. However, my mom was able to play basketball during her time at Reedley High School. My father on the other hand was more involved in playing sports, specifically American sports. My dad’s mother, Rosalinda (Rosa) Benavidez Falcon, was born in Nueva Leon, Mexico but raised in a border town in Texas. So my Grandma Rosa was raised with a very mixed upbringing of Mexican/Tejano culture with American customs. Therefore, when she eventually gave birth to my father and lived in Parlier, CA, my dad was raised within a stronger american culture do to the great rise of american music and sports through new mediums like television and FM radio. My dad was raised watching and playing American sports like American Football, baseball, and basketball. He played these sports growing up with his childhood friends, and he enjoyed playing football for Parlier High School. He is also a firm supporter of Fresno State’s Bulldog football team without attending there, and he and my mom enjoy watching games when possible as it is my mom’s alma mater. My dad least liked basketball from the set of basketball, baseball, and football, and oddly I like basketball the most of those three. He raised us to be 49er fans, LA Dodger fans, and Los Angeles Lakers fans. When growing up, my dad would play catch with me with either a football or a baseball, but we also played basketball as a family on odd Sundays after washing the cars and my mom was able to play with her experience in basketball. I then played baseball and basketball in 5th grade, as I noticed that I was not as good as the older kids, but through insecurity I stopped playing. But I also noticed soccer provided me so much joy and was the way I connected specifically with my class.


I was obsessed with soccer/football as much as I could be obsessed with being raised in a household that did not share my same passion. I remember being so attentive to watch the 2014 World Cup and finally got to watch the Magical Messi play as it was finally available for me to watch for free. My dad did not allow me to watch soccer being raised because it was only available on separate TV channels that he had to pay extra. So I missed watching the great FC Barcelona era during 2008-2012 and even afterwards with the addition of Neymar Jr. But my friends were able to expose me a little more in high school, and I remember having memories of going to the Library in High School to watch Champions League matches during lunch on unapproved websites. Most of my childhood friends were either fans of FC Barcelona or Real Madrid, so each El Classico I remembered was always spoken about. But outside of European clubs, many of my friends had allegiances to Mexican teams in Liga MX like Club América, Las Chivas, Monterrey, or Cruz Azul. It wasn’t until college I was able to enjoy the sport more as the champions league was shown for free in the University Center, and I was already a FC Barcelona fan due to Messi’s time there and my love for FC Barcelona developed since then.


After elementary school, I played in high school and soccer was much more serious. The sport meant a lot to our town, as it was not the Friday night lights that the football team had but we had a lot of community support. It was a pleasure to represent our town, and I know my friends shared that pride. My only regret was not playing my freshman year of high school, as it made me feel back in technical ability as my friends from elementary school. When we lost the playoffs our senior year, I remember all of us crying on the bus home from Fresno. And when I went to college I practiced with the Club Soccer team at USF, but only actually registered to play my junior year of 2020 but was sadly stopped due to the Covid pandemic. But now as an adult, I enjoy playing pickup as much as I can, and hopefully can find a more serious league in San Diego. But after college, I played indoor in Fresno and in another town called Dinuba that are at a good level.


Museums and Art:
        One of my favorite hobbies is now to go to museums, preferably art museums that have unique exhibits. But I barely picked up this habit when attending college in San Francisco! My alma mater, USF, is closely located to Golden Gate Park and the park was used during my orientation. We were taken to the de Young Museum in Golden Gate Park, since there is a tower that has an amazing vista of the city that's openly available to the public. And it gave me the courage to go alone on weekends if I didn’t have plans, and I picked up the habit to attend and invite friends to come along. San Francisco provided many great art museums that I absolutely adore! I believe my uncle that lives in San Francisco, Hector Lee Jr., who is an illustrator perhaps also planted a seed in me as he is someone who likes to engage with art and has memberships to the museums in the city. I would also attend the Legion of Honor in Outer Richmond frequently, as the structure and architecture is absolutely beautiful, and had a great selection of western art as it was a museum that solely focused on western art. It was a great location, and I would also walk to the Sutro Baths which is a local landmark and had beautiful views of the sunset over Ocean Beach if it was not cloudy that day. Plus in my time in San Francisco, I really valued the Mission District because my uncle would often take me there where the public art scene is still alive and well since my uncle’s transition there since the 1990s. The Mission District is full of vibrant colors and public murals, it makes the little things like walks more interesting. And to this day, every time I make a trip back to the city, I always make a trip to the Mission District to enjoy the sun and the murals in alleyways. 


After moving away from San Francisco in March 2023, I moved back home to Reedley to stay with my parents and I engaged with the biweekly Art Walk that would happen in Downtown Fresno, which has sadly now been affected negatively by local politicians. It was a great social movement within Fresno, where local vendors would come and sell their own art on the street and many art studios would open up and be more sophisticated crowds. But in my opinion, the magic of Fresno’s Art Walk were the vendors since they had really great digital art and fashion for sale that energized the crowd, plus really great local bands would be playing on every block. Now in San Diego, I have not been able to attend as many museums as I want to because of the necessary time and stress that the job search has taken a toll on me. But, I have attended some of the museums in Balboa Park, specifically the Museum of Us, San Diego Museum of Art, and the Timken Museum of Art. The Museum of Us had a great exhibit on the history of human cannibalism and on dark secrets we admit. I also have attended the monthly Art Walk here in the Mexican/Chicano neighborhood, Barrio Logan, and the local street comes alive with local artists selling their art in their studios, plus a buzz of good food and latin dance.